---
layout: default
description: Three Skeleton Key
---
# Three Skeleton Key by Georges G Toudouze
### Date added: 2022/03/22

“The world is a dangerous place to live...” (Albert Einstein). Once humans settled down and changed from hunter gatherers to farmers, the clear threats that life once posed suddenly disappeared or got reduced dramatically. Life could proceed in an orderly fashion, following human sense of progress and leaving the past behind. Yet, despite that humans have settled down and distanced themselves from the natural world from which they came, the malignant fears of creatures that had once posed a threat to our ancestors still persists to this day. “Three Skeleton Key” keeps the reader on edge with its ever present danger created by a relentless opponent of three lighthouse keepers trapped in their metal conical structure. Toudouze’s story employs a variety of traditional elements of a thriller thereby justifying that his work be placed in that category. 

Any thriller that hopes to thrill must have a clear and present danger for the protagonist. The reader gets taken in with the dangers and empathizes with his plight in the story. The clear threat the protagonists of Three Skeleton key faces are  “The rats of the sea [which] are fierce, bold animals. Large, strong, and intelligent, clannish and seawise” (Toudouze) that come from a shipwreck. When describing these deadly rodents further, the author mentions that “[the rat’s will] swarm over you, tear you, and not cease until your flesh has been stripped from the bones”.  The keepers seemed protected in their shell, but the sheer determination of the furry vermin outside had them dig in and penetrate the lower level of the lighthouse “the wooden framework of [the] window, eaten away from the outside, sagging inwards.” The rats have already cornered the keepers as they “had swarmed up and over the tower as if it had been a tree,... covered the lighthouse with a furry mantle, and reached the top of the tower, filling the gallery and piling atop the lantern. The rats showed no sign of easing, and just when the reader thinks that he knows what will happen next, something totally unexpected occurs and the danger persists. Such manipulation of stories remains one of the pillars that make thrillers interesting and keep the readers on the edge of their seats.
Predictability of events can create boredom in a reader, causing them to abandon the story for something more engaging. If this occurs, the author loses.  Toudouze must have realized this important element because he twists his plot to keep the reader second guessing their predictions about events.  For example, when the rats burst into the lighthouse by devouring the casement of the window, the reader most surely would believe that the chief’s fate had been sealed. However, the disheartened chief “had just time enough to leap to his feet and cry for help, [with] the rats swarming over him” (Toudouze). Another example of challenging the expectations of the reader occurs when the three lightkeepers realized that “The rats occupied the entire light beneath [them]” (Toudouze). Just as all the possible ways the lightkeepers could survive have been exhausted, they think of an ingenious way to notify the people on the shore by deciding “not to light the lantern that night” Toudouze), which would, by arrangement, send help out immediately.  Toudouze tricks the reader into thinking that the characters' will end like the namesakes of The Skeleton Key, but the author changes the flow, the cadence, the mood, the peril, thereby exciting the reader and ensuring that the story solidly falls into the thriller genre. As the genre had just started at the time of Toudouze’s writing of the story, one may consider him one of the forerunners of the story type. 
Thrillers, like any other genre of writing, need to capture and unequivocally hold the reader’s fascination, especially as that type of story offers excitement by virtue of its very name. Toudouze overcomes this difficulty with “Three Skeleton Key” by employing a unique (yet relatable), unyielding threat to his protagonist, thereby constantly creating uncertainty from moment to moment as to how the story will end. Thrillers may not satisfy every reader’s taste but he should not deny himself the limitless fun that the genre offers. Any story can grasp the reader’s attention, yet by design of its elements, when reading begins on a thriller, the author guarantees the prospect of a white-knuckled roller coaster ride.  

http://www.mpsaz.org/taylor/staff/bjdavis/short-stories/files/threeskeletonpdf.pdf

