layout: default
description: The Hound
---
# The Hound by HP Lovecraft
### Date added: 2022/06/21
No one welcomes the feeling of uncertainty because it will cause nausea in some and uncomfortable feelings in others. Uncertainty may serve as their worst nightmare for many people because it triggers a latent fear that remains hard-wired within the brain ever since the inception of mankind. Uncertainty sublimely indicates a dangerous predicament that puts an individual in the balance of life or death. In H.P. Lovecraft’s “The Hound,” the protagonist, suffers from anxiety stemming from his inexorable demise from a creature of the night. Lovecraft’s use of uncertainty within his work makes this tale of horror a terrifying experience for the reader.

Fear remains one of the few survival instincts that humans have left, thus, counterintuitively, experiencing dread may prove beneficial to people, even if they loathe experiencing it. The characters within “The Hound” despaired in “[their] fear of the unknown” developing extreme anxiety about the mystifying creature stalking them after a session of grave robbing in Holland. With the anxiety that developed from the inexplicable creature tormenting the characters, their resolve eventually breaks and they decide to return the stolen amulet back to the grave. Yet, after returning the pilfered pendant back to its proprietary owner, the bewildering beast continued to haunt the narrator of the story, leading him to say, “I shall seek with my revolver the oblivion which is my only refuge from the unnamed and unnamable” (Lovecraft). Sometimes the feeling of not knowing can push someone over the edge. In the case of “The Hound,” a perplexing monster that haunts the protagonists ultimately drives them insane. In their case, the emotional impact of uncertainty was too much for their minds to handle, which resulted in the protagonist choosing death over the continuous feeling of uncertainty. In reality, the beast may haunt the mind of a person who suspects a spouse of cheating on the relationship. The uncertainty in that situation will cause one to second guess their every decision, ultimately forcing the individual to behave abnormally, such as invading the privacy of the spouse to monitor communications or hire a private detective to uncover the truth of the matter. Except in horror, reality holds many more outrageous reactions to uncertainty. 

Embedded within the human psyche, ever since childbirth, lies fear. Everybody will experience it many times, as uncertainties constantly plague life. In Lovecrafrt’s “The Hound,” winged vengeance stalks the protagonist and his pal, and the terror of the unknown drives them to near madness. Survival instincts benefit mankind, but like the saying “too much of anything is a bad thing”, so too much fear may cripple reasoning, overwhelm emotions, and compel the individual to act rashly, which may lead to his untimely destruction. 

https://www.hplovecraft.com/writings/texts/fiction/h.aspx
