layout: default
description: The Blue Carbuncle
---
# The Blue Carbuncle by Arthur Conan Doyle
### Date added: 2022/06/21

Justice, the treatment of a person who has behaved immorally by committing acts that conflict with the values of the society, differs from person to person, like with the saying “One man's meat is another man's poison.” In this case, two people of similar upbringings may have altogether different views on what is right and what is wrong. In one of Arthur Conan Doyle’s famous short stories, “The Blue Carbuncle,” Sherlock Holmes chooses to turn a blind eye on the crimes of the antagonist, explaining, “I suppose that I am committing a felony, but it is just possible that I am saving a soul” (Doyle 9). Sherlock Holmes acted as the arbiter and dispenser of justice, in lieu of a proper court, and one can easily justify his decision. 

One could argue that Holmes had no right in releasing the culprit, as Horner the plumber would be sentenced for a crime he did not commit. Yet, as Holmes explains, “If Horner were in danger it would be another thing” (Holmes 9) so the sleuth has no pressure to turn Ryder into the police. In fact, Holmes has every right to decide the fate of James Ryder because without Holmes, nobody would have discovered the crime that Ryder had committed and blamed on another. Instead, Horner, a felon, would have gone to prison as an innocent man. If Holmes had “[sent] him to jail… [Holmes would’ve made Ryder] a jail-bird for life” (Doyle 10). Furthermore, the case against Horner would collapse as Ryder had plans to flee the country. The lack of his absence would be more than enough evidence for the authorities to identify who the real culprit is. Holmes himself had said, “This fellow will not appear against him, and the case must collapse” (Doyle 9). 

Society designed prisons as correctional facilities to reform convicts. In general, the hard luck cases end up spending time away from society so they do not repeat their crimes, Holmes, by his estimation, sees Ryder as a cringy coward who would not, in all likelihood, commit another offense. His actions proved amateur and out of his depth. Through Holmes’s perspective, turning Ryder over to the authorities would be like bringing a lamb to the slaughter, as Ryder would not survive the conditions of prison. Holmes saw that and favored leniency instead of ruining his life. 
