layout: default
description: The Long Rain
---
# The The Long Rain by Ray Bradbury
### Date added: 2022/05/5
Description connects the material to the five senses that humans have; it enhances the way one may imagine a scene, person, or object by allowing more specific images to form within our minds. Without description, many artistic pursuits would become bland and unenjoyable for the audience. Writing offers a good example: people first invented it almost six thousand years ago, and society still utilises it today in many ways, most notably as entertainment. Storytelling has evolved throughout the years, making it more enjoyable through many techniques such as the author having the narrators tell a story from different perspectives, giving details from the story that the reader may be able to relate to, or conveying or drawing out feelings that one may have experienced. Ray Bradbury wrote thousands of stories in his life and received numerous awards for his works. Within the short story “the Long Rain,” Bradbury implements many literary elements to strengthen his story, notably employing imagery and antagonism to draw the readers in.

Successful stories throughout the years have all shared a common theme: they include literary elements, and more and more types have developed as time went on. Since every successful author employs imagery, it is a common theme to see it within a story. Among the authors who make use of imagery, Bradbury most certainly ranks among the best of them. Throughout the short story, “The Long Rain,” Bradbury describes scenes that appeal to the five senses and can be easily imagined by the reader, like when the rain on the visitors of Venus, the protagonist “...had a face that once had been brown and now the rain had washed it pale, and the rain had washed the color from his eyes and they were white” (Illustrated Man 51). The simple imagery impacts the reader with wonderful effect, as one can easily conceptualize a horrific picture of a man whose face has been bleached white by the never ending rain. Bradbury’s description of the captain’s uniform within “The Long Rain” was another great example of how imagery was used. To emphasize the incessant force of the rains, Bradbury continues the whitewash description by including that the protagonist’s “...uniform was beginning to turn white, and perhaps a little green with fungus” (Illustrated Man 51). Removing colors from a fabric, much less skin, with water alone ventures into the improbable, if not the impossible. Yet Bradbury wanted to emphasise the effects of the incessant rain that was pounding down on the protagonists. In the beginning of the story, the author clearly paints the pictures of the torrential flooding, but brings the imagery to a whole new level of depth, having the character’s skin pigment and clothing dye color wash away. The characters’ spirits and hopes get, quite literally, washed away. Bradbury shows the dispirited crew pursuing their near futile quest bereft of color (or passion and verve?) or any idea where they should go. A good story will have a theme which puts the character at odds with his surroundings or his supporting characters, and Bradbury sets his story firmly within Man versus Nature boundary with an abstract foe in the form of precipitation.

Antagonism excites and engages the reader, making an otherwise unremarkable story into something more memorable with a moral lesson.  .Without an antagonist, many stories would become unrelatable, as no conflict does not reflect real life. Antagonism creates a roadblock that the protagonist needs to overcome. For example, the antagonist in the story comes in the form of Venutian rain, preventing the protagonist and his crew from reaching their goal of getting to the Sun dome. The relentless, remorseless rain drains the morale of the protagonists, as “[they went] crazy from just being soggy.” (Illustrated Man 52). Without the rain, the protagonist would not have to overcome any difficulties, and without a conflict, readers would not relate to the material. Because of the rain, the reader did not know if the protagonist was going to survive or give up on all hopes of reaching safety. Both the reader and the protagonist’s hopes were smashed when the book revealed that the first sun dome was destroyed by the rain. Because of this turn of events, it made the story much more interesting when the protagonist found the sun dome undamaged. His struggle started with others, but ended solitarily by the end. Bradbury creates a miniature version of the hero’s quest (minus a few steps) but ultimately he survives his ordeal and can go home to tell about it. 

For the reader’s theater of the mind, an author needs to connect the viewer to the work in such a way that they felt as if they had undergone the same trials and transformations as the main characters. In “The Long Rain,” Bradbury utilises imagery to open up our eyes in the literary world, and antagonism so one could possibly relate to the struggles that the protagonist is facing. The continual success of books and stories lie in its ability to capture the reader. Publishing companies bank on it, and authors do their utmost to facilitate this through their knowledge of the senses and the understanding of the world as it functions to create believable, even within the realm of the unbelievable. 

https://csuclc.files.wordpress.com/2013/03/illustrated-man-by-ray-bradbury.pdf