---
layout: default
description: The Defense of Sentinel
---
# The Defense of Sentinel
### Date added: 2022/04/10

The definition of a Hero has changed over the years, as the attributes that people associate with them have become more and more conventional and stereotypical. In the middle ages, for example, Joan of Arc led the French army to victory over the English as a female general, which for the time was highly controversial, as many people believed that women were born to do housework and nothing more. Ultimately, she suffered a fire while tied to a stake for heresy charges and crimes against English customs. Conversely, nowadays someone who does something slightly brave does his or her duty while employed in a dangerous job, or survives an ordeal to their own selfish benefit is considered a hero, when such a title should be bestowed upon a person who potentially sacrificed much for someone else to survive. In Louis L’Amour’s short story, “The Defense of Sentinel,” the author offers the reader an anti-hero, Finn McGraw, as the focal point of the narrative. Despite the common trappings of one who does great deeds for others at his own expense, this story’s protagonist lacks the qualities that many associate with “heroes”, yet manages to pull off such a heroic act that readers may question themselves about what makes a hero a true hero.
People usually classify a hero as model citizens who help people in need, and positively influence everyone around him. Finn McGraw and the typical hero share quite literally none of the heroic characteristics mentioned.  Instead of being a model citizen, Finn McGraw, a tramp and drunkard, usually roaming around the town streets looking for the next drink, but his affable character sometimes endears him to the townspeople.  Upon recovering from a drunken stupor of the night before, McGraw finds himself in a ghost town, and instead of wondering,” Where is everyone?” he realizes, “Good whiskey, and his for the taking! At least, if they had deserted him they had left the whiskey behind” (L’Amour). One may be shocked at how Finn McGraw, a hero who saves the town, behaves like someone who would be ignored if he walked the streets of any local town these days, as he serves as an anti-hero rather than the typical hero that many people in our modern society expect. By giving the reader the unexpected, L’Amour created a unique story, as many stories in the Western genre follow the same recipe: a knight in shining armour saves a person, princess, or town, and then they are recognized for their bravery and rewarded. McGraw’s tainted armor sees him through the battle. He had seen action in the army, perhaps too much, which may have driven him to drink in the first place to escape. Everyone in the town only saw the impediment and did not bother to discover the cause. Yet, this damaged man overcame his alcohol addiction long enough to pull off the miraculous. If drinking does not make for a hero, then thievery must surely disqualify him, too.
Taking advantage of a situation might be the right thing to do in some cases, but one should never take advantage of another’s misfortune or property. If situations compel someone to abandon their assets and property, the right thing to do would involve securing the items for when the person returns. If he does not, one can lay claim. “The town was his—the whole town—full of whiskey, food, clothing—almost everything a man could want” (L’Amour). Instead of solving the mystery of the missing townsfolk,  he decided to lay claim to everything remaining, such as the alcohol, the food, and the weapons that were within the town. Stealing and using other people’s properties can usually be punished by the law, and when we think of heroes, we almost never think of them getting in trouble with the law, or doing something that is against it. As a hindsight, though, his felving into the possessions of the town may prove recompense for his brave defending of the town, which the intruders may have looted and burned. However, he irresponsibly overindulged himself with his newfound bounty before he recalled the conversations of the night before. Again, his behavior lacks the moral code that a gentleman hero may possess, but McGraw defends the town like a champ, in part for self preservation, and, perhaps, in part to not let his townsfolk down. 
Heroes traditionally fight for the cause of right, regardless of the odds. But Finn McGraw had few options, as the war party arrived that morning.  One could say that McGraw had the chance to flee, but when he was presented with the opportunity, it was already far too late, as he realized that “he was alone in the town, there was no means of escape, no place to hide. And the Apaches were coming.” (L’Amour). Most heroes have a choice of whether they want to engage in a situation or not, but L’Amour’s fictional character, Finn McGraw, was given no such choice. Instead, the author pits him against the Apaches like a gladiatorial game, fighting tooth and nail to survive the onslaught. L’Amour gave him a tower to defend, ammunition to keep up the attack, and alcohol to pass the time. Despite his base instinct to flee, he found himself in a death trap. In a live or die situation, the strongest survive. He may not have chosen to be a hero, but his valor accredits him beyond mere definition.
	Whilst writing “The Defense of Sentinel,” Louis L’Amour wanted to follow a surging trend in America of using an antihero as the protagonist, one whom the reader may not be able to distinguish as the hero from the crowd of characters, a story where the hero did not bear angelic wings as he saved others. Because L’Amour wrote “Defense of Sentinel” several decades shy of a century ago, there have been many stories with unusual protagonists since an anti-hero can be a anything from run-of-the-mill citizen to a town tramp, like the case in L’Amour’s story, McGraw, who thieved, drank, took advantage of the townsfolk in their absence, and fought not out of righteousness but out of necessity, became the unlikely hero. Such a story may indeed give the reader pause for thought in realizing that a burglar of houses, a vagrant drunk, homeless person, or even a drug addict may have qualities within that could make them a hero of the moment. Finn McGraw had surpassed all expectations placed on him by becoming the saviour of his town. With stories like this, one shall discover that, ironically, anti-heroes make the story more interesting by being less compelling themselves, thereby forcing the reader to stay on the edge of his seat, as the saviour of the story remains in the shadows, like embers to a fire that has not yet been extinguished.

https://readerslibrary.org/wp-content/uploads/The-Defense-of-Sentinel.pdf
