layout: default
description: The Sentinel
---
# The Sentinel by Arthur C. Clarke
### Date added: 2022/12/1
Einstein once said, “I am neither clever nor especially gifted. I am only very, very curious”. One could employ Einstein’s philosophy by asking many questions either in school or at work, picking up a new hobby, stepping out of their comfort zones, or reading the genre of science fiction. Said genre feeds the human’s inquiring mind by asking of the collective imagination what the future offers. Sci-fi stories often encourage the reader to think critically, either by inquiring about a specific event or even an item that appears within the story. Speculative fiction compels the reader to question the present, wondering if one could possibly see those technological advances within their lifetime. “The Sentinel'' by Arthur C. Clarke describes the journey of Wilson, a selenologist looking for an artifact believed to be left on the moon by its previous inhabitants. Through the story, he offers an answer to the age-old question, ”Are we alone?” with a  resounding, “No.”

Scientists do not have a clear understanding of the probability of life, but people speculate that we humanity is not alone within the expansive universe. Science fiction stories often explore the idea of life existing outside of our little blue world, thereby pushing on in our, possibly Quixotic quest to find it. Near the end of the story, Wilson finds the artifact that the earth authorities sent him to the moon to explore amid and wondrous landscape, ultimately stumbling upon a non-natural architecture in that, “It had been leveled to support a glittering, roughly pyramidal structure, twice as high as a man, that was set in the rock like a gigantic, many-faceted jewel” (Clarke 4). The evidence of a once-present, sentient species thrills the mind, and the geometric shape, in particular, stirs something primeval, which stretches back to the dawn of time. It represents something every culture on earth has emulated in one form or another: the pyramid. While imagining the possibilities of otherworldly influences on human history, Wilson describes the origin of the device, that “[no] lost civilization of our own [could] have built that machine, for the thickness of the meteoric dust on the plateau has enabled us to measure” (Clarke 5). This may further fascinate the reader, as the thought of a possible life form apart from ours visiting our solar system. 

 It passed the frozen outer worlds, knowing that life could play no part in their destinies. It came to rest among the inner planets, warming themselves around the fire of the Sun and waiting for their stories to begin.
 
