---
layout: default
description: All Summer in a day
---
# Dark they were golden eyed by Ray Bradbury
### Date added: 2022/02/11

With technology reaching a level of advancement unseen in previous years, it is not as rare for families to move to different places as it was before. If one does move, it would most definitely take some time before he adjusts properly to his new environment. The short story, “Dark they were and Golden Eyed” by Bradbury explores what would happen if humans were to move to another planet isolated from earth, and whether or not they would change or they stay the way they were. Within the story, the author uses the motif of water and air to symbolize two aspects of life after a move.

The biggest reason why humans dominate the food chain is that we can utilize things we find and shape them to our needs, compared to other animals who survive on whatever they are born with. Having the ability to mould things into tools does not mean that humans themselves cannot be changed and moulded as well. A prime example from Bradbury’s story comes in the form of water. When Harry decides to go for a swim in a lake on Mars, he “[feels] the water washing away [his] old [body] and lengthening the bones”  (Bradbury, 9). In the story, Bradbury uses the water motif to show the reader that nothing is unchangeable. Water holds a precious purpose in life and offers the constant means of change. Water has forged new paths for rivers over time, as they wind through the land. No river is the same as it was hundreds of years ago. Further evidence can be seen with ocean cliffs. The perpetual, unceasing barrage of waves upon the rocks diminishes them bit by bit until the shape of the shoreline changes. When water freezes, such as with glaciers, it can rip across the landscape like a plow creating a furrow. Such is the power of change within water, and Bradbury proves clever to embrace that motif. Water in the story was the precursor to change, but Bradbury used another motif of a universal force which can equally wear something down to nothing. 

Nothing can escape the ravages of time; the strongest walls will be worn down and cities will be made and destroyed. Nothing is forever, everything will change, no matter if it wants to or not. Human bodies will change as they develop from birth and fall into decline time. While growing up, everybody had dreams of what they wanted to become, but if they looked back, these dreams and aspirations have almost certainly changed. The literal atmosphere in Bradbury’s story exemplifies changes in humans. At the onset of the story, the narrator describes the wind blowing onto Harry as “the Martian air might draw his soul from him, as marrow comes from a white bone”  (Bradbury, 1). This air motif foreshadows the destiny of the protagonist, no matter how hard he fought it. Often when someone doesn’t have a soul, it means that they are lacking or lost their personality. Bittering remains the one earthling living in constant defiance of the changes his fellows and family are undergoing. The water indicates the change, and the air reminds him that time is catching up with him. Like with anyone, no one is immortal and the days are numbered. Bradbury signifies the approach of the end of his humanity with the blowing wind as a constant reminder. He cannot escape his fate and destiny and more than the reader can. 

Shakespeare once wrote, “Time and tide wait for no man” and Bradbury’s short story emphasizes this with the motifs of liquid and air to represent the concept of change and time, respectively. Change is inevitable, and no matter how hard a person tries, he cannot flee from it. As Bradbury points out, it is a matter of time before the inevitable hits, and he shows that a person has a choice: he can either kick up a fuss, rebel, and complain bitterly in futility or he can gracefully accept the flow of time, embrace whatever changes may occur, and live the rest of his life more contentedly. The reader can choose from there.
	https://www.nthurston.k12.wa.us/cms/lib/WA01001371/Centricity/Domain/275/Dark%20They%20Were%20and%20Golden%20Eyed%20Full%20Text.pdf
