---
layout: default
description: The Veldt
---
# The Veldt Ray Bradbury
### Date added: 2022/01/31
Technology has hit a level of sophistication that is unprecedented in recorded history. To think, a small metal box encases everything that a person would need, and he would be able to access it with the touch of a screen. This is the reality for most people on their smartphones these days, being able to access a vast amount of information. With the ability to communicate or play with friends almost instantaneously, it is hard not to develop a reliance on the device. Even children who are incapable of reading can acquire an obsession with mobile games, and their enabling parents use the phone as a form of childcare, rather than implementing it themselves. Negligence of parenting is more common than you think, parents think that spoiling their child would be a replacement for parenting, but as we learn from “The Veldt” by Ray Bradbury, that's not the case. Within the story, Bradbury offers the reader a warning about what would happen if we depend on technology too much and gives insights into the consequences of overindulgence of children.
In recent years, exposure to technology has reached a level unseen before. For some, imagining that the tools used almost every day have harmful effects can overwhelm the mind. Yet, Ray Bradbury accurately predicted the dangers and addictions that humans might face with technology almost seventy years ago, and he warns the reader that people who depend on technology too much run the risk of feeling detached from the world. In “The Veldt,” Lydia and George discuss how their house is doing everything for them. She complains, “I feel like I don’t belong here. The house is wife and mother now. You’re beginning to feel unnecessary too” (The Veldt, 4). They realized that their family relies on technology too much and wants to turn it all off. These days, people can choose from a variety of AI devices, such as Alexa, that replaces the need to turn on a light, or a tv, get information or lock a house. As of this writing, today’s tech cannot compare to that described in the story; however, one can easily notice the signs of dependence and laziness, even with smartphones. For example, how many people know their friends’ phone numbers, or even their family members. Bradbury’s Warning is as relevant now, as it was then. Over-reliance on the machines led to misery for the Hadleys, but their permissive attitude created a bigger, deadlier problem. 
The challenges of parenthood might discourage an individual to a point where he wants to hand over the burdens to someone else. Yet, wanting to and needing to completely differ. Every parent has a duty that he does not enjoy, but once started, he must see it through. If ignored, the parent can unwittingly harm the child. The ways of parenting vary as much as the people in society, and each method possesses drawbacks and benefits, but some offer more harm than good, “The Veldt '' explores one of those inferior methods of parenting: permissiveness by catering to every whim of the child without saying no. To illustrate the downside of spoiling, George explains how his kids “... [started] acting funny ever since [he] forbade them to take the rocket to New York”(The Veldt 8). In other words, prior to that moment, he denied them anything. Later, when George invites a psychologist over to examine the kids, the specialist notes the obvious, “I sensed only that you had spoiled your children more than most” (The Veldt 10). Since George had spoiled his kids so much, they started treating him not as a parent, but more like a tool to get what they want. Without any refusals, children respect their parents less and will constantly push boundaries. Eventually when the children do run up against a wall of “no,” they will probably be resentful, spiteful, and vengeful. Therefore, Bradbury advises establishing the boundaries early to prevent unfortunate events, such as untimely deaths. 

Technology pervades life but must not rule it. “The Veldt” emphasizes the wonders of technology but stresses how a person can run afoul of obsession and reliance on it. In addition, giving in to children’s every desire will not help them, but only destroy their chances of becoming successful in society, as well as damage the relationship between the parent and the child. Tools have helped mankind since the dawning of time, yet when the tool becomes god, a person needs to step back, step away, and evaluate the relationship. If one can not live without certain technology, it had better be medical. Otherwise, that afflicted person risks developing psychological issues down the road. 
https://repositorio.ufsc.br/bitstream/handle/123456789/163728/The%20Veldt%20-%20Ray%20Bradbury.pdf