layout: default
description: Tangle Foot
---
# Tangle Foot B. W. Edwards
### Date added: 2022/05/31

Science fiction, sometimes referred to as speculative fiction,  often stems from the imagination and possibilities of our modern tech. Someone in the distant future looking back at science fiction may have scoffed at today’s imaginative stories. This strikes a similar chord to the genre of steampunk, which had inspirational roots in 19th century sci-fi literature with 20,000 leagues Under the Sea by Jules Verne and The Time Machine by H.G. Wells. One can identify and define Steampunk by its metalwork and robots that function with gears and steam. “TangleFoot”, by Cherie Priest is a classic example of the genre, as the whole story shows signs of counterweighted clockwork, and has similarities to the Victorian era. 

Robots made from gears and bolts often need a power source to function. However, works that fall under the genre of Steampunk usually include machines that function without electricity and can perform many impossible tasks for a robot. The machine that the protagonist creates within the story functions like a boy, walks with jar can jar-lids for kneecaps,  and mimics its surroundings. The robot within the story could “[turn] itself on… because it wants to be on.” The protagonist was told by an old lady that he meets within the story, “[The robot is] your[s]... for now, but you must watch him”, as “such empty children are vulnerable” (Priest 1). This ties in to the robot turning itself on, as later within the story, the reader would find that the robot has been possessed by a new identity which he calls “Tanglefoot.” Such things cannot happen in this reality, as a collection of metal could not possibly harbour a soul, much less be able to turn itself on at a whim. This ties in with the surrealism that steampunk is usually associated with, and is what makes “Tanglefoot” a steampunk story.

Steampunk journeys forward by visiting and paying homage to the past. Its Victorian-era technology and setting dominate the descriptions, creating a narrative bound in clockwork itself, which is exemplified in “Tanglefoot.” As a genre, steampunk remains known more by its appearance rather than literature (barring the stories which inspired the genre in the first place). For science fiction and history lovers, they have a merging form of literature that will stimulate both sensibilities and perhaps create a new fan. They may even get goggles. 
