layout: default
description: Tony and the Beatles
---
# Tony and the Beatles by Philip K Dick
### Date added: 2022/12/1
A person can conceal his intentions within his actions; almost nobody will assist or remain an ally to him without a good reason to do so. One can easily see in politics, as within every alliance or conflict, that an intention lurks behind the creation of those interactions and agreements. Though a private citizen may not notice these hidden objectives that others have in their day-to-day lives, he can clearly see a character's purposes within pieces of literature, as the author may want to deliberately emphasize these intentions to either villainize a certain character or present them as more heroic. In “Tony and the Beetles,” PKD emphasizes the fragility of relations and how quickly power shifts can occur.

Within the story, a war between the Pas-udeti, better known as “the beetles,” and humanity had been raging on for a hundred years. Tony, the protagonist, has kept friendly relations with several beetles, but their relationship turns sour once the humans lose a significant battle, which scatters their forces. The beetles who were close friends with Tony said to him, “We have you on the run, you… white-grubs" (PKD). With this demeaning epithet, the reader instantly realizes that relations, no matter how good and secure they can feel, may deteriorate quickly; in this case, it only took twelve hours. The relationships that Tony had had with the Beetles occurred as the conqueror befriends the conquered. The beetles had no choice but to remain friendly with the Humans, as they did not know which side would ultimately prevail in the war. If the beetles treated the humans harshly and their forces lost, they would suffer a gruesome demise at worst or discrimination and humiliation at least. However, after having hid their true intentions until the assurance of their safety and victory, the beetles finally revealed their unfiltered disdain towards humanity, with some even saying, “Don't come back! This is our planet" (PKD). What the Beetles did to Tony and any humans on the planet shows that a simple shift in power can change how people perceive the minority in rule, as well as re-evaluate their relationships with them. 

Relationships are complicated, everybody has their intentions, either oblivious or hidden. A change in power or new relationships may change the subsequent interactions one has with newfound enemies. PKD tells the reader that loyalty is only for the downtrodden, and a change in the winds of fate can make the servants the masters. 
