---
layout: default
description: All Summer in a day
---
# All Summer in a Day by Ray Bradbury
There is always a day in the summer when it rains, and when it finally stops,  euphoria fills the spirit as the clouds finally part ways and the sun shines through. Perhaps this feeling comes from the shift in air pressure from low to high, perhaps the fear and dread of a deluge or tornado passes, or simply, one feels the warmth of the sun return like a long-lost friend returning after being separated. Luckily people living on earth can experience such bliss, but the characters from “All Summer in a Day,” by Ray Bradbury, is caught in a torrential downpour nightmare. On Venus, instead of being extremely hot, like the actual planet, the rain incessantly pounds the inhabitants’ living structures and the surroundings, only pausing for a brief moment every seven years, which may be akin to being stranded on the ocean and seeing land for a brief moment every seven years but denied the ability to stay there. Throughout the story, Bradbury effectively used similes, imagery, and irony to add to the distress, hope, and joy of his characters, thereby contributing to the success of his short sci-fi tale.
	
Descriptors in a book are just as important as gravy with fries. One great way to describe things in a book are similes, which can create vivid images with concrete comparisons. Bradbury sprinkled similes all over his story to allow it to come to life. For example, Bradbury describes school kids anxiously awaiting the sun by saying, “the children pressed [onto] each other like so many roses, so many weeds” (Bradbury 1). In a contrasting image of beautiful flowers and annoying plants, he shows how some of the kids are good, whereas others are malicious and will do harm. He gives a clue as to the composition of the class, and the weeds shall prove harmful to the protagonist, as a true week will strangle the hope out of any other plants that surround it. Bradbury employs  another simile to describe how the sun looked to the protagonist Margot, “like a lemon it was” (Bradbury 2). She relates the sun to something that almost everyone has seen before because the last time her classmates had seen it, they were two years old. Juxtaposed to Margot, who had grown up with the sun, so she could recall it from memory easily. She tries to be helpful, but Brabury’s simile gets her into trouble with her peers who resent her further out of their jealousy. The tragedy of the story occurs, as a result of this simple description of the sun. Comparisons and mental images are two sides of the same coin, yet with one word or a short phrase, the author can make the reading experience much more enjoyable, and real.

It has been said that a picture can paint a thousand words, and imagery is the author’s brush. It is the process of giving examples that the reader can relate to or creating concrete mental impressions by using words that appeal to the senses. Bradbury appeals to the reader’s senses throughout his short story “All Summer in a Day” to make the story much more lifelike, as if the reader was watching a film play before him. Imagery shows the protagonist in the story, Margot; as “a very frail girl who looked as if she had been lost in the rain for years and the rain had washed out the blue from her eyes and the red from her mouth and the yellow from her hair” (Bradbury, 2). Here Bradbury suggests to the reader what Margot looks like without telling the reader directly. Of course, she had not literally lost her pigmentation, but rather he uses the description to emphasize how oppressive the rains of Venus are in washing away her joy of life that she once had while on earth. When the children who had locked Margot inside the closet, thereby preventing her from seeing the sun, realize what they had done, Margot emerges and sees “The storm and thunder, lightning on their faces, blue and terrible” on all of them (Bradbury, 4). The villainy and treachery of the kids’ deed is evident and their guilt is conveyed through the imagery of the depressing rains of their petty lives resuming to business as usual for the next seven years. They realized that they had hurt Margot more deeply than any punch could by denying her the sun, even for that brief amount of time. In both cases, Bradbury shines with his skills as a storyteller by not only showing the reader what was happening on one level, but gives shades of nuance through his pictures, yet he offers more of sneak peeks at what will ultimately be the end of the story. 

To see the future would require the gift of being a god. Mere mortals are not privy to what is to be, but sometimes authors love to serve as the hand of the divine and plant clues as to what is the fate of a character. For Margot, her destiny is revealed by her jealous classmates who told her   "Well, don’t wait around here… You won’t see nothing" (Bradbury 2). Bradbury gives a hint to the reader of the events that will unfold, as the children lock Margot inside of a closet and prevent her from seeing the sun. The tragedy of Margot’s situation is revealed even though she (nor the audience) realizes this. The effect and impact of foreshadowing can give more of a sense of awe that she should have known that bad events were going to happen, and she would be denied that which would save her. 

Writing a story is similar to baking a delicious cake: one cannot make one with only a single ingredient. Bradbury’s ingredients for “All Summer in a day” consist of a dash of similes, mixed in with much imagery, and sprinkled with a bit of foreshadowing. By creating the perfect blend, an author can heighten the experience of the reader, thus creating more impact and a potential fan. Literary techniques are the tools of the writer’s trade, and Bradbury wields them like a Master Craftsman.

https://www.mukilteoschools.org/site/handlers/filedownload.ashx?moduleinstanceid=183&dataid=731&FileName=6-All-Summer-in-a-Day-by-Ray-Bradbury.pdf

