---
layout: default
description: Beware the Dog
---
# Beware the Dog by Roald Dahl
### Date added: 2022/03/22

Nobody wants to be in war, countless lives will be lost and many people who partake in it may be left with physical and mental scars that will never heal. War has never been clean; it will always have torture, gore, killing of the innocent and more. That said, countries that are waging war against each other would naturally want to have important prisoners, particularly officers, to increase their tactical advantage for future engagements, as the country's agents could extract information. Peter Williamson, a fictional World War two pilot within “Beware of the Dog” who is a prisoner of war, wakes up after falling out of his plane because of his loss of consciousness. Ultimately, the last line that he says with his name, rank and serial number comes from duress because he realizes he is caught in a deceptive game of espionage with German agents.

Veterans of certain occupations, like aviation, may come to be experts in their profession, like being able to identify their location from a bird’s eye view, the smell of a particular material, or even the sound of an engine humming. When Peter wakes up in a hospital, his senses and logic are put into direct conflict because of a contradiction offered by the Nurse. When Peter hears some planes flying nearby, he recognizes the sounds of the engines, like “anyone who has been bombed can tell the noise of a [German] Junkers 88” This all seemed unreal as “[there] were [no] sirens...” thereby confusing Peter more, especially when the Nurse told Him, “You mustn't worry about a thing like that” (Dahl). As he was a pilot who was serving in the war, he would know the sounds of German planes. Anyone whose professional knowledge is challenged or cast into doubt would immediately go on the defensive, but because of his leg, Williams chalked up the incongruity with blood loss. Yet, the nurse sowed the first seeds of doubt, raising suspicions in the pilot. Not only was his professional knowledge put into question, but later his previous knowledge from his youth contradicted what he experienced in the hospital. 

When a person has solid support about a certain subject, and someone else comes and questions every single aspect of his claim, it is normal that he may start to second guess himself and question the veracity of his memory. For a second time, Williams gets gaslighted by the nurse, furthering his doubts. Since Peter had lost one of his legs, the nurse had to give him a bed bath, and while the nurse was cleaning Peter’s right foot, she said, “the water [is] as hard as nails” (Dahl). This seemed normal to the reader, until a confused Peter recalled his past when he had attended school in Brighton that “the water was so soft... you had to take a shower afterwards to get all the soap off your body” (Dahl). This was another red flag to both the reader and Peter. He knows Brighton’s water situation, and the water in the hospital could not be Brighton’s water. At that moment, Williams has to realize he is being duped for some reason, and when one realizes that he is being deceived, believing anything afterwards from the liar would be hard. Additionally, the more curious would seek out the truth, instead of relying on one source of information, which Peter does through much pain and effort.  

When uncertainty lingers at the back of the mind, prudence dictates that one should trust his eyes rather than what others tell him. Once Peter realizes that the nurse might be lying about where he is located, he decides to get out of bed and have a look for himself. He struggles to get himself out of bed to assess his surroundings, and when he does, his eyes are met with “the green countryside beyond” and not a beach like he would expect. Furthermore, there was a sign in a hedge that read “Garde le chien,” which clearly is not English. The sign might have fit had the nurse told Peter that they were currently in France, but according to the nurse and the doctor, they were in “Brighton.” The pieces of the puzzle started to take shape: soft water in a place known to have hard water; German planes flying without challenge, and a sign that says “beware of the dog” in French. At this point in the story, the reader would have realized that the nurse and the doctor are not who they claim to be. Peter makes up his mind, and when the supposed “Wing Commander” comes in and asks Peter about his squadron, Peter gives the officer the information one should give when captured: name, rank and serial number..
The endings of stories often open a window to the reader revealing some answers or the truth behind the author's intentions. Roald Dahl confirms any suspicions that the reader had. Like in baseball, after three strikes the player is out. The nurse not only gaslighted Peter, making him second guess his every thought, but she also deceived him, not once, not twice, but three times. What the reader may conclude from “Beware of the Dog” by Roald Dahl, is that if one ever realizes that he is being deceived, he should inquire, cross-examine, fact check, get answers, and remain vigilant because he does not know the extent of the danger he is in.  

http://web1.nbed.nb.ca/sites/ASD-S/1820/J%20Johnston/short%20stories/Beware%20of%20the%20Dog%20--Roald%20Dahl.pdf
