---
layout: default
description: Leiningen and the Ants
---
# Leiningen and the Ants by Carl Stephenson
### Date added: 2022/04/10

A good leader can inspire his followers in any circumstance. His self-confidence can improve the morale of those around him, as it is proof that he has an expertise that will benefit the group and see them through trouble. However, overconfidence without the experience to back it up may result in disaster. “Leiningen and the Ants” pits human ingenuity against the relentless, mindless onslaught of nature. Leinengen, the protagonist, believes his mental superiority will outwit mere ants, and that hubris results in pain and trauma that he and his workers could have avoided.
Wherever life flourishes, a food chain sustains it. Since the prime directive of all creatures is survival, animals have developed the instinctual fight or flight response to imminent danger. Humans, on the other hand, have been atop the food chain for several hundred centuries now, as can be seen when Leinengen looked down on the ants, musing, “even a herd of saurians couldn't drive [him] from this plantation”. Later on, a local government official with more experience in the matter of ants warned, “if you don't clear out at once there'll be nothing left of you  but a skeleton picked as clean as your own plantation” (Stephenson). There is always a limit to one’s ability and the amount of challenges that can be overcomed. Being too confident will lead to one’s downfall as believing that one is able to do the impossible will often lead to failure. Leiningen remains steadfast in his belief that he is able to stop the ants from devouring everything in the compound, his arrogance blinds him towards any flaws in his plans. His tunnel vision, though thought out, does not account for every contingency and he suffers as a result. Although common sense and wisdom presented themselves, he still chose to ignore it, maintaining that he knew better, and was willing to sacrifice himself and his whole plantation to prove it.
In today’s society, confidence should fill an individual, but too much it may endanger someone else’s well being and should be toned down. Leiningen allows hubris to consume himself and affect the workers of his plantation, by putting their lives in danger. Again, Leiningen boasts to the official about how he had planned for everything as “When [he] began this model farm and plantation three years ago, [he] took into account all that could conceivably happen to it. And now [he’s] ready for anything and everything--including [the] ants” (Stevenson). Leiningen’s arrogance leads to a disastrous result, blinding him to his surroundings. At the end of the story, Leiningen was able to survive, and fend off the ants, but he stood at the brink of death, which may have traumatized him. Leiningen trusted in his ability to protect his plantation so much that he dismissed the possibility of retreating when he could have safely done so, and he proceeded to back himself into a corner. “If by some miracle the ants managed to cross the water and reached the plantation” (Stevenson). His plan remained so absolute and fool proof, that he would have wagered his life on it, which in a sense, he did. One could say, thanks to Leiningen’s confidence in his plan, he was able to save his plantation and survive to tell the tale, but if luck had not been on his side, he would have lost his life, and put the workers of his plantation in danger as well.
“Too much of anything is bad” Mark Twain once said, and this applies to everything in life, including self-assuredness, as Carl Stephenson demonstrates within the story of “Leiningen Versus the Ants.” Stephenson’s protagonist not only battles ants as an existential threat, but also his ego, by ignoring sound advice and relying exclusively on his plan without contingencies of failure. Through Leinengen’s bad example, Stephenson implores the reader to always be in touch with his feelings about a risky situation. He would advise that common sense dictate all plans and always have an out for when a situation spirals out of control. The piece reads like a war story, and, according to Sun Tzu, the best battle is the one that is never fought.  

https://www.classicshorts.com/stories/lvta.html