layout: default
description: Rules of the Game
---
# Rules of the Game by Amy Tan
### Date added: 2022/05/5
Finding the roots of a situation may prove harder than one thinks, but with enough evidence, and understanding of the situation, one may find the cause. Understanding a situation and figuring out the cause of the conflict may save friendships or even occupations. Conflict within the family complicates the dynamic of the situation. Conflicts with loved ones usually start with a misunderstanding, or breach of personal freedom, and de-escalating and walking away most often resolves the problem more often than direct confrontation. The short story, “Rules of the Game” illustrates how an annoyance can explode into a major issue without communication. Both Waverly and her mother played a role causing the commotion, as it is not as one sided as the reader may have originally thought.
Different cultures have different rules. In the story, the mother hails from a traditional Chinese background (expecting obedience from her daughter), but the daughter has a mindset of both Chinese and American (craving independence). Once Waverly discovers that she has a knack for chess, and her mother capitalizes on it to aggrandize herself, rather than her daughter. After several overt boasting sessions, Waverly finally snapped and told her mother, “It's just so embarrassing” (Rules of the Game 5). Though Waverly meant every word, she instantly regretted  what she said when her mother’s “voice was cracking with anger” (Rules of the Game 5). Waverly  then pushes the issue, somewhat petulantly, by asking her mom, "Why do you have to use me to show off? If you want to show off, then why don't you learn to play chess?” (Rules of the Game 5). Waverly herself admitted that what she said was a mistake, but one has to admit that her mother is half culpable in this in the quarrel between mother and daughter, as well. Waverly’s traditional Chinese mother decided to show affection the only way she knew how to: by showing off Waverly’s accomplishments to others. Unfortunately, she also included herself in the glory, which Waverly took her mother’s bragging as a self-endorsement to better her standing in the community, rather than hold genuine pride in her daughter. The approach her mother should have employed centers on complimenting her child, and telling her of maternal pride, and not the neighborhood. This approach would have eliminated the possibility of Waverly misunderstanding her mother’s affection, and interpreting it as a way for her to show off. 
Everybody has a different way of showing emotions, and everybody has a different way of interpreting said feelings. Misunderstanding, as one can see in the “Rules of the Game” comes easily when the two parties do not communicate their feelings well. The pressure will eventually cause an explosion. Something that works for one person may not work for another. To avoid these situations, one should not push one’s own morals or beliefs on another person without their consent. 

https://jg019.k12.sd.us/eng1/Assignment%20Documents/Rules%20of%20the%20Game.pdf

