layout: default
description: Dracula
---
# Dracula by Bram Stoker
### Date added: 2022/05/31

Good pieces of literature from different eras all share a common trait: being able to be enjoyed regardless of when it was written in, such as Homer’s The Odyssey, Shakespear’s  Shakespeare’s Hamlet. Herman Melville’s Moby Dick, Bam Stoker’s Dracula, Ray Bradbury’s Fahrenheit, 451, and many others. Most of these stories have been considered to be the pinnacle of literature for their time, and people still enjoy them to this day. Dracula brought a unique way of storytelling and a relatively new genre to the early 20th century.

In twentieth century literature, storytelling happens from a first person point of view, a retelling from the narrator’s direct experiences. Dracula differs in the method of narration. Instead of the typical storytelling process, its “narrative is [mostly told] through letters, diary entries, and newspaper articles” (Wikipedia on Dracula). Furthermore, Dracula did not have a traditional protagonist; instead, the narrator’s mantle gets passed on from character to character as the story develops. With a new way of telling a story, Stoker had written a classic when it was published in London in May of 1897. Since then, numerous adaptations of the book have lined bookshelves and streaming services, and has become one of the most famous pieces of English Literature. Aside from Dracula’s unique delivery, Stocker’s use of Horror differed it from the crowd of books published during that time. The genre took off during the 1920s, yet despite its publication date, Dracula ''was [still] positively received by reviewers who pointed to its effective use of horror” (Wikipedia on Dracula). The combination of unique storytelling and a relatively new genre of literature caused Dracula to skyrocket in popularity. It introduced the world to a vampire fiction that would take the world by storm.

Dracula had an enormous impact on the literary world in its time and far beyond. Bram Stoker’s distinct use of a variety of sources to let the reader piece together the story gave the horror genre new life, perhaps one could say everlasting life, like the title character. If asked about what are the classic “monsters,” one may come up with Frankenstein, Werewolf, or the mummy. Yet, beyond the shadow of a doubt, anyone would most certainly bring up a vampire, thanks to Dracula. The story created a hoard of followers, devotees, and inspiration for other writers and a cult group which actually think themselves as Vampires. 

