layout: default
description: The Murderer
---
# The Murderer by Ray Bradbury
### Date added: 2022/05/5
Reliance on the material often makes one soft, and it can take away from one’s innate ability to survive. Undeniably, tools have aided humanity in becoming the dominant race, but since the technological revolution in the early 1950s, humans have grown more dependent on their gadgets, most of us clinging on to it like a lifeline. Ever since scientists harnessed electricity to power devices, many artists, psychiatrists, and philosophers have given warnings either through the informative articles or through works of literature. Ray Bradbury, in “The Murderer”, wanted to show his readers what would happen if society embraced their tech at the cost of their mental well being. Ultimately, the warning he offers revolves around the idea that people use their tech too much for a healthy, functional society. 

Even though the short story was published in 1953, Bradbury accurately predicted one of the many conveniences that the average adult would possess and exhibit the poor behaviors that come with technology. Bradbury remains remarkably prescient with the radio watches in the story, which would be comparable to our modern-day Apple smartwatches. Within the short story, Brock, the self-named “Murderer,” carries the voice of reason by describing the radio watches as “horror chamber[s]... which my friends and my wife phoned every five minutes” (Bradbury 2). In the world of the short story, people use their wrist communicators to “[keep] in touch” with everybody they know. Because of the convenience that the watch brings, nobody could function without it, like when the protagonist blocked the 5G signal on a bus with a “portable diathermy machine” while heading back home. Brock notes that “A terrible, unexpected silence [occurred]. The bus inhabitants faced … having to converse with each other. Panic! Sheer, animal panic!” (The Murderer 3). The passengers acted like fish out of the water, unable to communicate with other people face-to-face. In the current times, if the server goes out or WIFI goes down due to a power outage, the average person would melt down and wonder how they will regain contact with the rest of the world. Since 2007, the world became enslaved to their phones and lost the importance of interacting with the actual environment instead of hiding out in a fantasy, online world. Bradbury would have probably agreed with the maxim: we are born, we use the internet, we die. The benefit of the radio watch actually ended up doing more harm than good for the people who had used them, as has happened in the world today, as Bradbury guessed it would.

One could compare independence to growing wings: it gives the ability to do many things that were not possible before. The characters within “The Murderer” stripped themselves of that freedom by living on the radio rather than actual life. No matter the cause, one should not set up barriers that can hinder paths to success, As history has proven again and again if people become complacent slaves to their tools, the quality of their lives will proportionately fall. 
