layout: default
description: Kidnapped Santa Claus
---
# Kidnapped Santa Claus by L. Frank Baum
### Date added: 2022/12/1
Light and darkness share the opposite sides of the same coin, one could say the same about happiness and discontent. Without discontent, one would not know happiness. An author trying to emphasize a point may employ contrast; however, the way the writers contrast their points may not be as straightforward as comparing day to night. Rather, the difference may prove more subtle and only recognizable to those who understand the particular author’s culture. In “Kidnapped Santa Claus,” author L. Frank Baum contrasts the happiness that Santa Claus brings to the discontent that the Daemons symbolize within the story. 
	All the world knows that Santa Claus brings joy, that which makes children happy on Christmas day and keeps parents happy on the days before christmas. Within the story, Santa Claus is captured by the Daemon of Malice. After the kidnapping, the daemon says, "They are waking up to find their stockings empty! Ho, ho! How they will quarrel, and wail, and stamp their feet in anger! Our caves will be full today, old Santa! Our caves are sure to be full" (Baum). What the Daemon of Malice said may not compel the reader to analyze his taunt to Santa, but if one were to take into account the negative feelings that Baum mentioned, one would conclude that the children would inevitably suffer from discontent, though on different levels. Happiness, in contrast, comes at the end of the story when Santa asks his second in command to fix the mistaken gifts to the children by “[sending off] him with rubber boots for Charlie Smith, and a doll for Mamie Brown; so that even those two disappointed ones became happy” and the reader can presume that Santa restores the balance of contentment once again.  This comparison of Santa and the Daemons serves as a scale on which the human psyche balances. On the one hand, negative events impact a person unfavorably and create a downward spiral of feelings, whereas accepting life’s gifts as they come generates and elevates the overall pleasure of living. If one falls prey to Baum’s Daemons, he would be bound for darkness. Thus, Baum instructs readers, like Santa, to avoid the trap of discontent by finding happiness in the details.
Throughout the story, one finds many examples of contrast, as it makes the reader develop a sense of fear, like when the kidnapping of Santa occurs, which would make all the children in the world unhappy. This exemplifies the power of contrast and the way it can manipulate a reader into experiencing feelings that they may not have ever known. This way of writing a story is highly effective as it targets the core of human philosophy, and focuses on feelings that one enjoys, and dislikes. 
