layout: default
description: Merry Christmas
---
# The Gift of Cochise by Louis L'Amour
### Date added: 2022/09/6

“We all live in a chaotic universe. So don’t expect a perfect life inside the chaos, instead, embrace the beauty of it” (Cosmosapien). During life, one will encounter many different types of people, whose actions define their qualities, and differ from oneself. For instance, people’s behavior varies from person to person, as does their emotional reactions and skillset. These variations make the world unique, where everybody differs ever so slightly in the way they show affection to how their personalities influence others. Writing best captures those contrasts, as an author can exaggerate a character’s particular traits to a degree that may not be possible in the real world. In “The Gift of Cochise,'' Louis L’Amour introduces several characters to the reader: Ed Lowe, Ches Lane, and Cochise. L’Amour utilizes Western archetypes to quickly define those  characters for the reader so he can jump to the plot and not have to waste time in details.

A gunslinger exudes cocky confidence in all that they do, and serve as the life of the party. They always have an ace up their sleeve and are not afraid to use it. Ed Lowe, the Gunslinger, enters the El Paso saloon and L’Amour highlights his traits by writing ”...all [Ed] had ever asked for of life was enough to eat, a horse to ride, an occasional drink, and companions to talk with. Not that he had anything to say. He just liked to talk” and Ed was “good looking, shiftless, and agreeable. He was also, unfortunately, handy with a pistol” (L’Amour). His impulsive good nature, always looking for a good time or a fight, embroiled him in a battle in which he had no reason to engage in.  Ed Lowe proved a genial, thoughtful soul by helping Ches Lane in his duel with the Tolliver Brothers, but he demonstrates sheer recklessness as if he forgot why he went to the town in the first place. Leaving his family stranded in the middle of nowhere, without any care for his wife’s well-being, he figured he would get through the fight unscathed. His luck had run out, leaving a widow and two kids in the thick of Apache country with no one to tend after them. Despite his lack of responsibility on this earth, he indirectly passed the torch on to someone more stable with foresight.

Whenever the word western comes up, one will inevitably think of cowboys. Their well-rounded skills and natural talent usually sets them apart from the crowd, though they may lack foresight and some social skills. At the onset of his heroic journey to deliver the tragic news to Angie, Ches Lane encounters two white men who tell him to “Leave this country before [he dies] here” yet, despite this warning, he “pushed on” (L’amour 5). Ches Lane, all alone, ventured out into the outback, displaying one of the characteristics of the cowboy’s virtue of solitude, as “a man had died to save his life… [he] had a deep sense of obligation” (L’amour 4). Later in the story, he manages to outwit his Apache pursuers, but luck left him at the wrong time. The Warband found him, and he defiantly tells Cochise, “I have fought your strong men and beaten them… I have lived amongst you, and now only by accident have you captured me” (L’Amour 7-8). These characteristics of solitude and bravery exemplify how Ches Lane fits the role of a true cowboy, with his naivety (going into the outback all by himself despite warnings given to him) yet particular skill set to survive (riding in the outback and using a knife to fight). Though westerns play with archetypes, the story needs balance among the characters, and with the heroes, the presence of calming wisdom grounds their action.

The Doc archetype serves as the healer of the group, a technical genius, or just is better at one thing than anybody else. They encourage peace, pick up new skills quickly, and analyze situations efficiently and effectively. When Cochise confronts Angie (the widow of Ed Lowe) about why she has killed several of his men, instead of using brute force, he talks with Angie. He quickly discerns that she had no intention to fight, and his men acted dishonourably, saying to her, in a tone of finality and certitude, “My people will bother you no longer” (L’amour 2). Furthermore, Cochise returned the two ponies that his men had stolen. Cochise excels at leadership, and he knows how to guide his braves, through domineering respect, as one can find with his order to return Angie’s ponies and granting Ches Lane’s wish of fighting against the “black-faced Apache” (L’amour 8). Cochise makes a quick diagnostic of the situation and acts with profound wisdom. Even by the end of the story, he puts two true cowboys together, like they had the destiny to be together. He fixes what ails everyone.   
The contrasting personalities of the characters within the “Gift of Cochise” gives the reader a sense of harmony with its gunslinger, true cowboy, and Doc. L’Amour allows himself the luxury to build his western world by using the archetypes. The reader immediately knows the role of each person in the story without the necessity to go into detail, so he can sit back in his leatherbound comfy chair and enjoy a ride in the Wild West.
