layout: default
description: Voice in the Night
---
# Voice in the Night by William Hope Hodgson
### Date added: 2022/06/21
Before people developed literature, they shared stories and information through conversations. Dialogue, the capturing of talk on paper, can provide a story with more authenticity, giving the reader a better experience by immersing him into the world of the narrator. “Voice in the night” by William Hope Hodgson would run the risk of telling a completely boring story without the dialogue progressing the subplot. Without the extra narrative embedded within the main arc of the plot, the satisfying ending would never have happened. 

Dialogue will always advance the plot in a way that conventional prose does not. The interactions within the story brings the reader up to date on what has been happening within the narrative. The monster, John, receives a boon from the crew for he and his lady, and in return for the favor, he explains, “...it is God’s wish that we should [tell you] all that we have suffered since—since—” (Hodgeson). From that preface, the miserable creature named John shares his misery. At one point, he encounters a moss-creature, saying, “The head of the thing—a shapeless grey ball, inclined in my direction. I stood stupidly, and the vile arm brushed across my face… There was a sweetish taste upon my lips where the thing had touched me. I licked them, and was immediately filled with an inhuman desire” (Hodgson). From these events, he realized his doom and tells the narrator, “But, for myself, I had added an intolerable knowledge, to breed an incessant terror in my brain; for I doubted not but that I had seen the end of one of these men who had come to the island in the ship in the lagoon; and in that monstrous ending I had seen our own”  (Hodgson). If Hodgson had not used John’s monologue, the limitations of what the narrator experienced would convey a ghost story, or something mysterious that happened one foggy evening in the Pacific. The story within the story really helped evoke a variety of feelings in the reader, such as sympathy, desperation, nobility from self-sacrifice, and inevitable demise. Had Hodgson gone with a mysterious voice in the night angle, he would have created more questions than answers, leaving the reader wanting for more from the story. Such a gamble can pay off if the reader has a good imagination, or it may fail due to the lack of a solid ending. 

When trying to create something interesting or find a creative solution, some good answers may lie within the way that people act, as they behave a certain way for a reason. Hodgson adds much to his otherwise lacking ghost story by incorporating a narrative within the overall narrative, thereby adding interest to the original story, elevating the plot, and offering a satisfying ending. The reader’s happiness should govern the author’s method of telling a tale, pushing him to use all tools available to share a good story. With due diligence to pushing the story forward, dialogue can prove a versatile, personalized account of what happens. 
