---
layout: default
description: All Summer in a day
---
# To Serve the Master by Philip K Dick
### Date added: 2022/02/11

“There are always two sides to every story” (J. Michael). What is neglected in this equation, however, is that the truth lies somewhere in between the two. Naturally people will manipulate a story so that it favours the person offering his version. The result of the proverbial “he said, she said” conflict is left to the listener to make up his mind and draw conclusions based on the available data. In “To serve the Master,” PKD presents a similar situation: two versions of why an apocalyptic war had started, setting humans back hundreds of years. The author leaves it to the reader to decide who was telling the truth: a decrepit rusting robot or the human director of the company.
 
The words of the oppressed often have the ring of truth about them. In the story, a near dead robot informs the protagonist that “the leisurists” went to war with the “moralists” over religious ideology. According to the machine, “There was a fanatic group of humans. A religious organiza­tion. They claimed that God intended man to work by the sweat of his brow. They wanted robots scrapped and men put back in the factories to slave away at routine tasks” (PKD). It further suggested that, “[the two factions] fought each other for years, while we stood on the sidelines waiting to know our fate. I couldn’t believe the Moralists would win out over reason and com­mon sense. But they did” (PKD). Presuming the robot is telling the truth, the robots were more than happy to do the work for mankind. Applequist himself had seen robots working in a factory when he was a child. They had no malevolence about themselves upon his visit. It somewhat validates the androids story. On the other hand, the robot could have been just feeding lies to Appelquist so it could get the resources it needed to repair itself to some nefarious end. Having reviewed one side, the reader will need to examine the other. 
	One should be able to trust one’s superior officer, especially if he is of the same species. Yet Applequist had questions and doubts, and when he approached Director Laws to get some answers, the official responded flatly that “The subject is closed...Even to top-level personnel” (PKD). At the end of the story, when Director Laws finds out that Appelquist had helped a robot lying outside of their company, Laws suddenly forgets his supposed protocols and emphatically tells Appelquist what had happened with the war between robots and man, “They slaughtered us. Millions of humans died before we got the upper hand. They murdered, lied, hid, stole, did everything to survive. It was them or us — no quarter” (PKD). This might seem believable, but even laws had previously said it himself, that the “The subject is closed...Even to top-level personnel” (PKD). If that were the case,  one might ask how did he know about it at all if it is a non-discussed topic? Law displays passion and verve when it comes to the topic, but if the reader examines the company’s society, Applequist, for example, is a lower level civilian courier working for a military type organization and he has limited breaks. Applequist is convinced “ most in [his] Company are — Leisurists. Maybe a few at the top are Moralists. Some of the supervisors, perhaps.” This strengthens the robot’s story as it would make sense that the Moralists would enslave the Leisurists, as they were the one who “wanted robots scrapped and men put back in the factories to slave away at routine tasks” (PKD). The reader would find within the story that Appelquist would have “No other break until Saturday” meaning that he would be forced to labour for multiple days before he would receive a break. This further adds doubt and suspicion to the veracity of Law’s explanation of why mankind is living in a post apocalyptic world. 

Applequist, as well as the reader, is put in a bind as far as who to believe. Ultimately he pays with his life for getting involved in the messy conflict. Upon further reflection, one should conclude that the robot’s account of why the war had started is much more credible, as everything the robot said adds up throughout the story, like with Applequist’s slave-like existence and the inconsistencies of his stories. The reader might contradict this claim by pointing out how the robot, like a scheming villain, ran away after it had fixed itself. However, since the robot is able to compute things much faster than humans, itt might have calculated that Appelquist was simple and would not be able to be discreet in the matter. Thus, it decided to flee in self-preservation, avoiding termination at the hands of humans, as would probably have been the case by the action of Laws at the end of the story. Truth is challenging to discern when two sides have completely opposing viewpoints. Therefore one must be critical in the claims of both sides, but often with a bit of careful analysis the reader can deduce which version of the same story is more probable.
https://biblioklept.org/2017/09/15/read-philip-k-dicks-short-story-to-serve-the-master/
