---
layout: default
description: Kaleidoscope
---
# Kaleidoscope by Ray Bradbury
### Date added: 2022/02/24

Grief manifests itself in many ways when tragedy happens, and, according to Elizabeth Kubler-Ross, the process of grieving can be broken down into five stages. One may become enraged, deny that anything had happened, or just accept what has happened. Not all of the stages will necessarily be experienced. Much relies on how emotionally mature or prepared to manage sorrow an individual is. In the short story, “Kaleidoscope,” the characters deal with their impending deaths, after their ship is shattered by a stray meteor, as they soar away from each other into the solar system to die alone. Ray Bradbury, the author, illustrates Kubler-Ross’s theory by having each of his characters represent a stage of grief. 

When someone dies, the first impulse from those who survive him may be that it is not true. One cannot believe that the world is now without that person, especially if they were particularly close. The person may think the news of the death is some sick prank or joke and he is being messed with. Stimson, a great example of this, denies that anything has happened to himself or the crew of the destroyed ship by repeating to his stranded crewmates over the intercom, “I don’t believe this; I don’t believe any of this is happening” (Bradbury). Denial is a way the mind can start to move towards acceptance, as it helps prepare the mind for the shock of something bad happening within an instant, as the brain needs time to process it, and to prevent the body from going into complete shock and rendering it useless, one may deny that anything had happened. Denial may also save one’s life, as some people may die of shock if they are told their loved ones have passed.Though initially not coming to grips with reality may seem strange or out of place, that phase offers a cushion to the blow that the truth is going to strike on the mind. When in a tough situation, humans will always want to put the fault or burden on someone or something else, that is what anger is for in the stage of grief. One will get angry and blame the cause of the situation on either someone or something else, or simply get mad at themselves for allowing the situation to happen.

After one is done with grief it is normal to vent the anger out on someone, as once something bad has happened,frustration naturally rears its ugly head and the individual reacts badly to the negative feeling as a result. Hollis, the protagonist in the “Kaleidoscope” and leader of the departing crewmen, tries to maintain order among the crew despite the hopeless situation. His attempts prove futile and discipline breaks down. He discovers that he is not able to do anything about the situation, so a “great anger [fills] him” (Bradbury). One of the worst feelings one can have is the inability to do anything, as humans are always power hungry, and when we are unable to do anything to change our fate it is ordinary to become angry, as the power we once had was suddenly taken away from us. As the reader might have figured out, Applegate and Hollis do not get along well, but nearing the end of the story, they decide to put apart their differences and make up, as Applegate puts it, “ This isn’t good. It makes us bad. This is a bad way to die. It brings all the bile out.” Implying that Applegate would much rather die a peaceful man, with no enemies or grudges. When one is about to die, that is when self reflection happens, and when one reflects on themselves, it is almost certain that they would not want a black stain in their legacy, so they would make up and move on. That is exactly what Applegate and Hollis did once they realized they had no ability to change the outcome of their demise. After one realizes that they are not able to do anything about the situation, the most common thing that will happen is depression. As humans are very controlling, and naturally one would like a say in their fate, but when they are unable to do anything.

Once one cools his head and the mind is able to comprehend what has happened, usually he resorts to depression, as the sheer thought of the inability to do anything feels impossible. Hollis, the character who went through most of the stages of grief, as he comes to terms with his impending doom, “ looking back, there was only one remorse, and that was only that he wished to go on living. Did all dying people feel this way, as if they had never lived.” When people talk about grief, most people associate it with depression, but the two are not exactly synonymous as grief is a bigger range of feeling whilst depression is just an aspect of it. The characters within the Kaleidoscope are a great example of the manifestation of depression as an element of grief in that their predicament conjures the helplessness and loneliness associated with depression. Ultimately they grieve for each other, as well as themselves, but they need to pass through the final gate of coming to grips with the inevitable death and being at peace with it.

Once the mind has fully grasped a dire situation, and one can do nothing about it, eventually one has to just accept the situation, as there is no point in stressing and worrying about the inevitable. Everybody has different temperaments, and there is always someone who is cool-headed and keeps calm within a fatal situation. Within “Kaleidoscope,” that trait is exhibited by Lespere for once he realized what had happened, he just accepted his fate, and as “reminisced on the past, [all] happy.” After being depressed and not being able to do anything about the situation, he figured out the insignificance of this panicking would do nothing except for stress himself. Lespere decided that he wanted to die calm and happy, with no grudges; this is evident in the last moments of his life as he responds to Hollis’s rude remarks, “I’ve had my turn. I’m not getting mean at the end, like you.” Ultimately, he accepted his end and wanted to leave life without strife. Eventually, Hollis apologizes for his behavior and Lespere can go on his way. Another character, Stone, is stuck within a meteor shower and  does not act like any of the other characters, instead he jokes around, and simply accepts his fate. He skipped all the stages of grief and merrily accepted his fate. Some people are able to laugh at death as they realize that it is inescapable and leave life with an ironic smile on their face and maybe a song on their breath as they transfer to eternity. 

 	People in real life deal with grief differently, and there is no proper way to deal with it as everyone’s situations are different, and Bradbury reflects the diversity in his story. Each stage is different, and no character is necessarily better than the others. They are merely following the natural  pattern of denying the situation, being frustrated about being able to do nothing about it, sad and lonely with the isolation of death, and finally embracing fate serenely. Grief is like a splinter: the longer you leave it in, the more it hurts, and it remains, the splinter may cause infections, which worsens the situation. Logic dictates that removing the cause of the suffering will mitigate the damage and pain one suffers. Therefore, the quicker the grieving individual comes to accept reality, the better off he will be. 


https://csuclc.files.wordpress.com/2013/03/illustrated-man-by-ray-bradbury.pdf


