layout: default
description: Lamb to the Slaughter
---
# Lamb to the Slaughter by Roald Dahl
### Date added: 2023/4/3
Mirjana Puhar once said, “All that you do will come back to you. Good and bad.” Every daily action a person takes will eventually return to him, either stronger or weaker, in some shape or form. He may receive his  deserved karma years in the future, whilst another might receive it almost immediately after the event. In Roald Dahl’s short story, “Lamb to the Slaughter,” Patrick Malone informs his pregnant wife, Mary, that he is leaving her, which ultimately results in her killing him with dinner. The reader should feel neither sympathy nor revulsion for Mary, as karma will decide her fate. 
	Retaliation results from mistreatment, betrayal, or discontent. Within “Lamb to the Slaughter,” Mary’s actions towards her husband sprouted from his presumed infidelity, which hit her particularly hard as it “was her sixth month with child” (Dahl). Patrick’s alloys and coldhearted response inevitably chilled many readers, as he only hoped that there would not “be any fuss… [as] it wouldn’t be very good for [his] job” (Dahl). The husband’s unexpected break up baffled Mary, as “her first instinct was not to believe it, to reject it all” (Dahl). Mary’s shock came naturally. Her mind was oblivious to reality at that point, leaving her numb, wandering, and open to possibilities. Violence, one of the rational responses to such an upheaval, set her on a trajectory that required quick wits. She struck Patrick in the back of the head with a frozen-solid lamb shank. Her reaction after killing her husband lacked any guilt or release of pent up rage. Rather, she behaved as if the numbness of the truth still lingered. Again, this turn of events sent her into a cold, calculating mindset to remove any hint of her crime, and assure the unhindered continuance of her and her unborn child.
The crime Mary committed should neither garner sympathy nor disgust the reader, as, like with Patrick, fate will take its course. Ultimately, he got his punishment immediately, and whether he deserved a punishment of such cruelty remains for the reader to decide. If Dahl had continued the story, the reader would have discovered whether Mary had gotten dealt the lucky hand by fate or a life sentence in prison for her rash actions.
	Small acts of kindness are the building blocks for relationships in one’s life. These acts may not require one to do much, but will most likely result in a return of the kindness. Like the golden rule says, “Treat others how you want to be treated.” If one were to treat everyone with kindness, fate would play its role and what a person gives out would back in greater quantities.
