layout: default
description: Shipment of Mute Fate
---
# Shipment of Mute Fate by Les Crutchfield
### Date added: 2023/4/3
As Boris Pasternak once said, “Surprise is the greatest gift which life can grant us.” Simply being in the state of unknowing can make one’s life much more enjoyable (or even stressful in some cases), and makes many dramatic works enjoyable, such as movies, stories told by one’s parents, and literature. Good writers around the world all have something in common, in that they all follow the rule that every  English teacher has brought up at least once: Show, don’t tell. These writers captivate the reader with their words, manifesting a world within the reader’s imagination. However, they only offer the bare minimum concerning plot so that the climax remains safely concealed. In “Shipment of Mute Fate” by Les Crutchfield, the reader experiences a rollercoaster of emotions when the plot winds and turns, ultimately giving the reader a twist ending that was not within the spectrum of what the reader suspected. Crutchfield drops a hint with the title and skillfully weaves it into the unpredictable ending.

Mata Amritanandamayi once said,“Look at the optimism of nature. Nothing can stop it”. This certainly is not the case with “The Shipment of Mute Fate,” as it revolves around an animal of mother nature, a bushmaster, that was captured and scheduled for transferral from its home of South America to become the first live Bushmaster in an American zoo. Since the serpent had a notorious reputation of being a silent killer, the ship’s captain takes extra precautions by locking it up in a cage within a large wooden chest with a heavy padlock. This leads the reader to believe that the journey would go smoothly, but a story without surprises often leads to disappointments. 

The plot twist occurs when the cage that the bushmaster was stowed in was found splintered to pieces, broken from the inside. The crew members panic to find the bushmaster aboard a ship of unknowing people. After days of unrest and panic among the passengers, the very same person tasked to bring back the serpent encountered the bushmaster within the steward’s galley. The odds were piled against him; furthermore, the tone of the story hinted towards the demise of the protagonist. Yet, an unexpected heroine comes to his rescue. The feline that one of the passengers had snuck aboard the ship attacked the freed snake, eventually ending the bushmaster’s life all for the sake of protecting its kittens. 

One could believe that this plot twist would be the last one within the story, but the cherry on top is actually the work’s title, “The Shipment of Mute Fate.” Not only does it tie in with the fact that the Bushmaster is notorious for being a silent and deadly killer, but also the encounter between the feline and the character who smuggled the pregnant mother-to-be as a stowaway. The cat’s attack had no coordination with the protagonist and just leapt in a protective act as  another. It was simply an encounter of mute fate.

The future holds mysteries that are waiting to reveal themselves to the unwary. As one’s destiny has already been written by a higher power, an individual can only live a life and appreciate with amazement the curves that it undergoes. Many people dislike surprises when the events are not favorable, but life tastes a bit sweeter when wonderful moments occur unplanned. As mere mortals, unless one has clairvoyance, the limits to our species remain to living day by day without knowledge of what will come next. One can consider this life’s biggest gift, for if he knew everything that would happen, what a dull existence it would truly be. 
