layout: default
description: To be or not to be
---
# To be or not to be by Kurt Vonnegut
### Date added: 2022/12/1
Lucretius once said, “One man’s food is another man’s poison.” In other words, something one enjoys may not appeal to others. When reading “2br02b” by Kurt Vonnegut, one may wonder whether the society in the story falls under the category of a dystopian or utopian. Many arguments both favor and counter “2br02b” as a dystopian society, but the story fulfills the criteria of what makes a society utopian. 
One can define a utopia as “a place or state of things in which everything is perfect” (Oxford Dictionary), and most of those kind of settings take place in a world where “there [are] no prisons, no slums, no insane asylums, no cripples, no poverty, [and] no wars.” (Vonnegut 1). “2br02b” takes this a step further by saying that “all diseases were conquered. So was old age,”  bringing up how death, barring accidents, was for the adventurous (Vonnegut 1). The author lists those human achievements at the start of the story, thereby painting a picture of a perfect society, where suffering ceases to exist, where no innocent people die, and where a world remains free of inequalities. The death of a person would only come by their own free will, meaning nobody was dying of overdoses, violence, or poverty. Because of these accomplishments, the World government imposed population control, which “stabilized [1the US at] forty million souls.” (Vonnegut 1). Furthermore, Dr. Hitz, a scientist well over two centuries old, said, "He or she is going to live on a happy, roomy, clean, rich planet, thanks to population control. In a garden like that mural there" (Vonnegut 3). One could argue that the population control in the story of “2b0r2b” pushes it into the realm of a dystopian story, especially as someone else needs to die in order for someone to be born. However, one must not let his feelings interfere with the logic that Dr. Hitz presents when he said, "In the year 2000…before scientists stepped in and laid down the law, there wasn't even enough drinking water to go around, and nothing to eat but sea-weed—and still people insisted on their right to reproduce like jackrabbits. And their right, if possible, to live forever" (Vonnegut 3). If everybody was allowed to have as many children as they pleased, the earth would inevitably break under the immense demand from billions, if not trillions, of mouths to feed and oxygen to supply because no one will die naturally. Thus, the society came up with an elegant solution to pay the price for indefinite longevity, and for most people in the real world, they would pay willingly for such a reward.
Right and wrong make up the two sides of a coin, and a person places judgements either way depending on what he values. In “2BR02B,” Kurt Vonnegut may have attempted to persuade the reader that the society he painted that society should value a perfect life for all over an individual life. With all things considered, Vonnegut creates the blueprint for a perfect society, which to an outsider may come across as dystopian in its harshness. Yet, to gain immortality, one must sacrifice, for nothing comes for free. Many people would view the inconvenience about children as secondary and reap the benefits of what mankind suffered to build. 
