layout: default
description: Its a good life
---
# its a good life by Jerome Bixby
### Date added: 2023/02/10
As Eric Burdon states, “Inside each of us, there is the seed of both good and evil.” Evil appears in every nook and cranny of this planet, coming in different shapes and forms. Defying all expectations, evil may exist in a young child if given omnipotence. In “It’s a good life” by Jerome Bixby, Anthony, a six-year-old, purple-eyed boy keeps every adult in the town on their toes through fear of what he can do to them just by his supernatural mind. Because of all the suffering Anthony put the villagers through, one should conclude that the boy embodies evil.
	Isolation stems from choice or coercion, the former comes from free will and the latter results from tyranny. “It’s a Good Life” tells a story about a town that “had [been] taken… someplace. Or [the world was destroyed and only the village was left], [and] nobody knew which” (Bixby). The locals cannot think freely, and they “always mumbled… [so that] Anthony couldn't read their minds,” as anybody who displeased Anthony was thought into the cornfields and never seen again (Bixby). The villager’s inability to think and talk freely, mirrors many contemporary eastern nations, such as North Korea, Russia, and China, who monitor and censor people’s thoughts, often removing them if their opinions offend them in some shape or form. Though the methods and intentions may differ between Anthony and Kim Jung Un, the people surrounding the dictators feel the same effect of their leader’s wrath, usually in deadly ways. World authoritarians favor weapons of man to dispose of those who displease them, but Anthony has his own methods that make the other’s look like children playing with toys.  
Torture precedes pain, which brings on a thirst for death, the more diabolical the procedure, the quicker the desire for release.Anthony starts the story by having a rat eat itself, so he happily tortured those who upset him or his aunt. When it came to humans, he had sent many to the cornfield, the euphemism for graveyard. In one instance, Dan Hollis had drunk too much alcohol on his birthday at his party, thus upsetting Anthony who “ thought Dan Hollis into something like nothing anyone would have believed possible,” after which “he thought the thing into a grave deep, deep in the cornfield” (Bixby).  Anthony killed Dan Hollis on his birthday simply because he did not like the song that the guest of honor wanted playing. The killing of a person just because he does not like an action or thought from someone else clearly characterizes the killer as evil. Therefore, one should judge the child Anthony, not as an innocent who wields a power out of naive ignorance, but as a menace who resembles the devil himself, regardless of his age.
Though one may not encounter people with magical powers that can either isolate a whole town from the world or just destroy the world outright, this story may still provide use for one to understand that good and evil resides in people. Ultimately, tyrants at the very core are just spoiled babies that get their way, and one needs to remain vigilant and wary about such people. 
