layout: default
description: The HitchHiker
---
# The HitchHiker by Lucille Fletcher
### Date added: 2023/4/3
Neil Armstrong once said,“Mystery creates wonder and wonder is the basis of man’s desire to understand.” Though this philosophy may not seem practical in one’s day to day life,  it certainly applies to  literature in that it most certainly compels one to discover the root causes to the events that had taken place. Mysteries, for example, incorporate surprise twists, the element of the unknown, and other forms of literary devices. In Lucille Fletcher’s “The Hitchhiker,” the protagonist, Ronald Adams, embarks on a journey from New York to california. However, “The Hitchhiker” does not fall under the category of an average road trip, as Fletcher incorporates elements of mystery to conceal the identity of the hitchhiker. 

Road Trips are usually a way to clear one’s head, as they offer a break from routine. Ronald Adams, the protagonist of the Hitchhiker,  continuously meets a mysterious man, a hitchhiker, trying to catch a ride repeatedly on his trip to California. The presence of the hitchhiker drives Adams borderline insane. The use of repetition with the regular appearance of the creepy hiker certainly enhances the overall errieness of the story as the stranger with the overnight bag causes both the reader and Adams to question the identity of the man. As Adams states, after seeing the hiker at the side of the road for several consecutive days, “he began to be everywhere… wherever I stopped, even for a minute… he was there!” (Fletcher). Because the hiker mysteriously kept on appearing in front of him, Adams gaslights himself into thinking that some “fast truck had picked him up, beaten me to the Skyway, and let him off” (Fletcher). Both the reader and Adams himself realizes the true scope of the situation, as when he phoned home only to find his beloved mother in the hospital “since the death of her oldest son, Ronald” (Fletcher). This surprising turn allows the reader to piece together the possible identities of the hitchhiker, one of them being Adams himself. Grief has many stages, and the first being denial. Adams himself might be in the first stage of grief, denying his death. The repetitious appearance of the hiker could serve as a reminder to Adams that he has in fact died and is attempting to guide him into the afterlife. Ultimately, knowledge sheds light on his mystery and he, like a person caught among the unknown, assembles the narrative that he lacked to offer himself solace. Although he does not fully accept his demise and tries to escape it, like anyone would do, he employs the reader to hearken his words as they may be his last, thus acknowledging that his road trip is on to the afterlife.

The world contains many unknowns that a person can only detect through intuition. The mystery offered by Lucile Fletcher in her short story “The Hitchhiker,” strains the credulity of protagonist and reader with the random appearances of the presumed antagonist. So, when shrouded by the fog of ignorance, one needs to keep the senses open for clues, and once he discovers a grounding fact, the light of it, burning like a bright hot sun, will dispense the mystery and allow the individual to follow his course untroubled. 
