layout: default
description: The HitchHiker by Roald Dahl
---
# The HitchHiker by Roald Dahl
### Date added: 2023/4/3
Not every job requires the same skill set, so those who work blue collar jobs will develop calluses on their hands and feet whilst their white collar counterparts would metaphorically develop calluses on other parts of their bodies such as their brains and mouths. Having people who excel at distinct fields ultimately creates a society comprising various expertises. “The Hitchhiker'' revolves around two characters with vastly unique abilities, thus exploring the themes of class and types of jobs a person may have.


One may possess adeptness with a variety of body parts, but most people develop a high level of proficiency with their hands, whether it helps them cut wood, hammer in a nail, lasso a horse, or type 150 words per minute. Many professions require flexibility of the hands and quickness of the fingers, such as metalworking, performing magic tricks, preparing food, and, though not as ethical as the others, pickpocketing. Successful pickpockets need stealth and nimbleness with not only their fingers, but their minds and body, too. The hitch hiker fully displays his skills near the end of the story by improbably stealing the narrator’s belt (amongst his other possessions). The narrator was “flabbergasted” as the hitch hiker would “have had to undo the buckle and slide the whole thing out through the loops all the way round” (Dahl). After receiving the answer to his question, the narrator states "So you're a pickpocket", but the hitchhiker replies “I don’t like that word… it's coarse, and vulgar…I’m a professional fingersmith” (Dahl). Because the supporting character had an unsavory, distasteful profession as a professional fingersmith, the pair would, at first glance, not get along, as the protagonist’s professionally wrote and had status. Inherent society bias created a divide among the two characters, yet the diversity of their jobs brought them together and compelled the writer to respect his passenger, realizing that it takes all kinds of people to make a world and that you can have a bad job yet still live as a good person. For example, not only does the thief steal the police officer’s notebook that contained the names of those who violated the law (like the driver and passenger of the story) stating that it was the easiest job "[he’d] ever done." By his immoral actions, he resolves the conflict of the story and offers a twist ending (Dahl). The driver thought his proverbial goose was cooked, but the thief who instigated the problem fixed it, so the pair gained the experience of driving fast and free, while breaking speed limits, yet without paying any penalties. In the eyes of the law, both men acted unethically, but the reader, too, realizes that the world is not always black and white. Ultimately, one cannot judge a person based on his monetary status, nor can he base someone on the other’s job, for both may paint a far different picture than the reality.


As the saying goes, variety is the spice of life, and the contrasts often serve as complements. In “The Hitchhiker,” Dahl explores themes of classism and jobism through an affluent writer and a handy fingersmith.The experiences one may have with a person that at different 
