layout: default
description: The Storm
---
# The Storm by McKnight Malmar
### Date added: 2023/05/18
William Shakespeare once said, “By the pricking of my thumbs, something wicked this way comes.” This line from his play MacBeth exemplifies foreshadowing, a rather new concept at the time when he was prolifically writing. When used properly, this literary technique allows the author to subtly hint at the events that will occur later within the story. “The Storm” by McKnight Malmar, incorporates elements of foreshadowing to place clues about what will happen in the plot, as well as set up the twist ending, ultimately making his tale thrilling.

Occasionally, authors add objects or conditions that aid in character or plot development, with the exception of red herrings that misguide readers to make assumptions. In the case of “The Storm,” the appearance of the face outside the window serves as a development for not only the plot but for the twist ending as well. The protagonist of the story, Janet, arrives to her empty house amidst a storm, causing her to yearn for her husband, whom she assumed was still working late, as “he frequently was in the city all night because business kept him too late to catch the last train” (Malmar). Janet’s solitude brings about an unease and the pounding storm exacerbates the sensation. Eventually she witnesses a “glimmer of white at the window… a [ghastly] human face,” leading the reader to believe the encounter as nothing short of paranormal. As the story develops, Janet decides to build a fire, and in doing so, she enters the basement to retrieve some firewood. Descending into the basement, “the oil burner went off with a sharp click.” With her fear heightened, she hastily retrieved the wood, and while she was preparing to leave the cellar, “from the crack [of a trunk] came this tiny pinpoint of reflected light to prick the cellar's gloom.”  She was drawn towards the light like a moth to the flame, and within “her old trunk had held the curled-up body of a woman” (Malmar). In reaction to the dead body, Janet planned to call the police, as “ the thought of [them] was a comforting one.” However, because of her paranoia, she decided that the policemen who came to investigate would accuse her of murder (Malmar). With all the tension building up to the climax, Malmar introduces the protagonist’s husband, Ben. Janet tells Ben about the body she had found in the basement. Yet, when they arrived at the trunk, Ben assured her that nothing lay inside of it, except what she had packed. She admitted “"I--dreamed it all, I must have… I thought--oh, Ben, I thought” (Malmar). This was interrupted by Ben, whose “voice was odd, not like his at all” in that it “had a cold cunning edge to it” (Malmar). The story concludes with the protagonist of the story fleeing into the storm where she finds comfort. The development of these events ultimately leads to a twist ending. 

The disappearance of the woman’s body, along with Ben’s odd reply may compel the reader to infer the husband’s connection to the corpse. If one were to manifest his inner Sherlock, deducing that Ben  killed the woman, falls into the realm of plausibility. The likelihood of Ben’s face being the thing that appears outside the window increases if the reader presumes that he killed the woman. This solution would also explain the disappearance of the body, as once he saw his wife leave the basement, he had quickly broken into the house to properly dispose of the body. Furthermore, when his cutting off of Janet’s words before she could pose the speculation that he had killed the woman suggests his paranoia, as he thought his deeds had been uncovered and he attempted to distract her and guide the conversation away from her train of thought. Malmar’s use of foreshadowing with the attorney letters, the face outside the window, and the ring ultimately offer the reader one thrilling experience in just eight pages. 
