layout: default
description: The Visitor
---
# The Visitor by Ray Bradbury
### Date added: 2023/02/10
Boredom can set in and bring out the worst in people. To avoid the ennui, one may go to any lengths to end it. In the story, Saul meets an old acquaintance who is further along with the “blood rust” and lies at death’s door. Saul complains, “I wish to God…that you could at least talk. Why is it that intellectuals never get the blood rust and come up here?” (Bradbury). Without a care about his companion’s well-being, Saul lacks the compassion, empathy, or decency to see beyond his own immediate needs. Saul’s situation mirrors everybody’s on Mars, where all are dying a premature death, yet Saul acts as if his needs outweigh those of the dying. Common decency dictates that one should take care of those who suffer by putting most, if not all, of the afflicted people’s needs above and before his own. Saul cannot manage to do so, thereby modeling how mankind’s shortsightedness brings about greed. Greed does not limit itself to one victim, and can, in fact, infect a whole group. 
Oftentimes in life, those with the best of intentions get waylaid by inner desire and greed. Perhaps they wished to do the world a great service but end up bringing about destruction and ruin from what could have benefited all. In the story, Saul attempts to persuade Leonard to exclusively remain with him, and not the others, as “[they will] fight over you. They’ll kill each other—kill you—for the right to own you” (Bradbury). Leonard, with his otherworldly ability to project images into people’s heads, draws the attention of all the other diseased residents on Mars. Though Leonard had just arrived on the red planet, with good intentions in mind, he succumbed to greed, as he wanted to help all the suffering people. Ultimately, he wanted to help others with his gift so that “[he could] have felt quite like a god among children” (Illustrated Man 127). In his quest to become a divine wellspring of hope for the dispossessed and diseased, greed heightened his ambition, allowing him to believe that he can be something like a Messiah to the people on Mars. Ultimately, Leonard wrestles with power, as many powerful people have in the past. For example, Vladimir Putin invaded Ukraine with the ambition to expand Russia’s borders bringing about personal glory to himself at home. Both Leonard and Putin demonstrate the old adage that states, “Absolute power corrupts absolutely.” Those who have tasted glory, fame, or wealth, will inevitably crave more of that stimulant, doing anything to maintain the dopamine levels, ultimately revealing their darker sides as they sacrifice everything to experience those levels of euphoria again. Since life has limited the number of desires one may have, others naturally would yearn for the same things, thereby causing conflict among groups. 
Excessive desires run the risk of becoming contagious. If one comes into possession of something unique and desirable, soon the rest of the group will covet it when they learn of its existence. Within “The Visitor,” when Leonard displayed his unique ability to all those around, he not only triggered the greed within Saul, but that of all the people around them. This leads to Leonard acting as the Jury deciding who, out of the four men who found him and Saul in the cave, will receive an experience of their past. Unfortunately, aggressive possessiveness arises between Leonard and the four men, one even saying, “Look, we’re five against his one. We can make him do anything we want. If we cooperate, we’ve got a great thing here” (Illustrated Man 129). Because the four men displayed discontent with the amount that Leonard allotted to them each week. This compelled their inner greed to emerge, believing that they could overpower him and use force to achieve their goals. One can compare these actions to that of the presidential election of 2020, where Trump, blinded by the benefits that the office had given him, became overly greedy in his campaign to be re-elected, going as far as calling it a rigged election. Bradbury conveyed that greed almost always results in the same outcome: a detrimental loss for the greedy. 
Everyone has wants and desires, and the only trouble happens when they want too much. In the story, “The Visitor,” Ray Bradbury examines the dire consequences of greed, both within individuals and those within a group. Many spiritual leaders in human history have advocated for the moderation of desires. This wise stance has inevitably saved many souls, and those who choose to ignore the wisdom get cursed with its seductive and destructive powers. 
